The Grandmaster of the Jedi Order during the
centuries leading up to and throughout the
Clone Wars, Yoda was the leader of the lightside
Order right before the dark times and was
regarded as the most powerful Jedi to ever
exist in history up to that point.
But exactly how powerful was Yoda and what
was the centuries old Jedi Master truly capable
of when unleashing the full might of his abilities?
For this video we’ll go over his greatest,
demonstrated feats in regards to his lightsaber
combat skills, direct force abilities, and
then finally his extensive knowledge of the
force for non-combative purposes.
When it came to lightsaber combat, Yoda was
second to none.
A master of all 7 standard lightsaber forms,
Yoda specialized in form 4 as he believed
it best suited his small stature and short
reach.
Form 4, also known as Ataru, essentially required
the user to utilize the force to enhance their
bodies and use them as a weapon alongside
their lightsabers, performing physical feats
that would otherwise be considered impossible.
This was purely an offensive form, and to
use it at its most effectiveness one had to
always be on the attack and constantly moving
around.
And Yoda not only specialized in this form,
but straight up perfected it, as when fighting
at his full strength the Jedi master was able
to overpower any opponent of his as every
strike he dealt was done with flawless precision.
But on top of his mastery of form 4, Yoda’s
speed that he was able to achieve through
the force was what made him so deadly in one
on one combat, as only a very small handful
of force users of his era could even compete
with it at full force.
Just to give you an idea of the difference
of speed between Yoda and other Jedi Masters,
Yoda once demonstrated this very fact to a
group of padawans a few decades prior to the
Clone Wars during a lecture.
Completely unarmed, Yoda had the 3 Jedi Masters
Plo Koon, Saesee Tiin, and Depa Billaba attack
him at their full strength.
And even with 3 of some of the most talented
duelists attacking him all at once, the unarmed
Yoda was able to evade their blows with complete
ease.
A lesson to show the students that with the
full power of the force even a weapon wasn’t
required to overcome some enemies, and to
perhaps even show them all why a small, old
man like himself was the one who held the
title of Grandmaster as well.
Beyond that, Yoda had also demonstrated in
beating some of the other greatest duelists
to exist within his lifetime, including even
Mace Windu, who was unable to fully contend
with the Grandmaster’s fury of attacks during
a practice duel.
Even Count Dooku himself, who was regarded
as the finest duelist of his generation, was
unable to contend with Yoda for more than
a few seconds before going on the defensive.
During their fight in Attack of the Clones,
Dooku was actually very confident that he
could beat his former Master.
When they began, he unleashed his full power,
only to have it be completely repelled by
Yoda’s defensives.
The Sith Lord’s initial confidence in victory
was quickly shattered in only mere seconds,
as he was now fighting for his life against
his former teacher.
He finally had to resort to a cheap trick
to distract Yoda so he himself could flee
onto his ship.
Funny enough, when Dooku got back from his
duel with Yoda, he quickly added the Jedi
Master to the list of people General Grievous
should never confront in battle, later telling
the Cyborg General that he better pray to
the stars that he would never be forced to
engage with Yoda, as it would mean his certain
death.
Even Palpatine, who was regarded as the most
powerful Sith Lord to ever exist, was genuinely
afraid of fighting Yoda in a lightsaber duel,
as he knew he would likely lose.
That’s why when they dueled in Revenge of
the Sith, Palpatine desperately tried to get
away from Yoda and create as much distance
between the two, so he could instead use his
force abilities to fight, in which case the
Sith Lord had the advantage in.
Yoda knew of this fact as well, which is why
he worked so hard to get close to his opponent
in an attempt to re-instigate their lightsaber
duel.
But even when Yoda did get close again, Palpatine
didn’t take any chances and instead unleashed
the full power of his force lightning, which
was enough to repel the already exhausted
Grandmaster into knocking him back into the
Senate central chamber following the force
repulse that was created between the two.
Compare this duel with Palpatine’s fight
against Mace Windu, and you can see the difference
in how the Sith Lord treated his two opponents,
where with Windu he was confident enough in
his own lightsaber skills to continue dueling
with his opponent, but when against Yoda he
quickly resorted to his force abilities which
he was far more confident in.
With all of this being said, Yoda’s biggest
weakness when it came to his lightsaber dueling
abilities was of course his age.
His intensive fighting technique was extremely
taxing on his old body, which resulted in
him only being able to sustain himself at
full strength for a short period before needing
to retreat due to exhaustion.
When it came to using the force itself as
a weapon, Yoda demonstrated feats that were
unimaginable to most other force users.
One of his most notable uses of the force
was during the Battle of Coruscant.
During the initial landings of the Separatist
armies on the city planet, Yoda casually stared
down the thousands of battle droids that were
approaching him before picking up hundreds
of them and lifting them up so they’d collide
with the incoming enemy starfighters.
Shortly afterwards he denied a massive separatist
transport of unleashing its droid compartments,
in which he then pushed back so that it would
collide and explode into another transport
ship that he was also manipulating with the
force.
Later in that same battle Yoda, with the help
of Mace Windu, was able to force push thousands
of battle droids back.
He then continued to fight in the frontlines
of the planet-wide engagement along with the
other Jedi in a battle that was said to have
lasted an entire day.
Another notable feat of his was using the
force to bring down the top of a mountain
in order to create a massive avalanche as
a way to destroy a small army of battle droids.
A less direct but extremely powerful force
ability that Yoda was a master in was battle
meditation.
It’s usage was capable of amping up nearby
allies, boosting their moral and making one
man feel like a hundred when they fought.
His most notable use of this ability was during
Kashyyyk, where the heavily outnumbered Clones
were able to overcome near impossible odds
as a result.
His usage of the force for defensive purposes
were also beyond that of any force user of
his era.
His ability to contain Palpatine’s force
lightning, which was known of being capable
of turning beings into dust at full power,
was perhaps Yoda’s greatest feat in demonstrating
his mastery of using the force for defense.
All in all, when it came to using the force
for combative purposes, only a small handful
of either Jedi or Sith could contend with
him without being utterly obliterated.
A great example of what a fight between Yoda
and most other force users would look like
was shown when Ventress tried to confront
him.
While quite formidable of a fighter and very
dangerous against most other Jedi, Ventress
was nothing when compared to Yoda, who casually
disarmed her like she was a lightsaber rack.
She was so little of a threat to Yoda that
he even returned her weapons back to her after
making a fool of her.
Also in Canon, Yoda straight up fights a gigantic
force mountain, and wins with relative ease
by overpowering it with his own force abilities
and forcing it to submit to his will.
Which in of itself is one of his most incredible
feats even among Legends material.
With centuries of studying and exploring all
aspects of the force, Yoda was basically an
archive of Jedi lore all to himself.
He was so knowledgeable of the force, that
he was capable of creating Holocrons from
scratch and locking them so that only those
worthy in the lightside were allowed to open
them for their contained secrets.
He was also known to sense disturbances of
incidents happening across the galaxy, whether
they be catastrophic events or just the intense
feelings of a fellow Jedi.
And finally, one of his more unique abilities
was using the force to straight up sustain
himself during his final years.
By the time he was training Luke, Yoda’s
physical body had gotten very sick and was
on the verge of death, with it only being
sustained by the force and his sheer will
to train the galaxy’s last hope.
The very moment he believed Luke was ready,
Yoda stopped sustaining himself with his powers
and slowly let his age overcome him as he
became one with living force.